# Analysis code for "The association between the gut microbiome and 24-hour blood pressure measurements in the SCAPIS study" by Yi-Ting Lin et al.

# scripts

Contains the analysis scripts.

* 00_data_for_applying_CLR_transf.R Script to create the list of participants to apply CLR transformation
* 01_preaparing_data.R has been used to process the data for the analyses performed in SCAPIS genearting the ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) and non-ABPM subsamples.
* 02_alpha_diversity.R has been used to generate the alpha diversity analysis results for ABPM subsample.
* 02_alpha_diversity_validation.R has been used to generate the alpha diversity analysis results for non-ABPM subsample.
* 03_species_24_bp_multipleBMI_modelV01.R has been used to generate the Model 1 analysis results for the associations between species and 24-hour blood pressure outcomes for ABPM subsample.
* 03_species_24_bp_multiple_modelV01.R has been used to generate the Model 2 analysis results for the associations between species and 24-hour blood pressure outcomes for ABPM subsample.
* 03_species_office_bp_multiple_modelV01.R has been used to generate the Model 2 analysis results for the associations between species and office blood pressure for ABPM subsample.
* 04_fgsea.R has been used to generate the enrichment analysis results for taxonomic genera.
* 06_sensitivity.R has been used to generate the sensitivity analysis results.
* 07_species_BP_multipleBMI_model_validationV01.R has been used to generate the Model 1 analysis results for the associations between species and office blood pressure for non-ABPM subsample.

# tables
Contains the tables generated by the analysis scripts.
